# Assignmnet1
# Big Data with examples and types  
Big Data, in recent years popular term, can be defined as a significant amount of data that cannot be stored or processed using traditional storage or processing technologies.  

The huge amounts of data generated by human and machine operations are so complicated and large that they cannot be comprehended by humans or fit into a relational database for analysis.  


# Big Data types include  
Structured Data: Data that has been organized into a specific format, such as relational databases.   
Examples: sales record, financial transactions  

Unstructured Data:The majority of large data is unstructured data, which includes information like dates, figures, and facts.  
Examples:audiofiles, Satellite imagery, No-SQL databases  

Semi-Structured Data:It is a combination of structured and unstructured data.  
Examples:XML and JSON  

(https://hevodata.com/learn/big-data-processing/)

## 6 V's of Big Data
-### Volume:
Volume refers to the amount of data generated and saved in a Big Data system.

-### Velocity:
Velocity refers that there will be more and more data available than previously available data, but it also implies that the data processing velocity must be just as fast.  

-### Variety:
Variety refers to the different formats of data as well as how they are structured and ready for processing.

-### Value:
Value refers to the data valuable and reliable, as well as data that must be preserved, analyzed, and assessed in order to gain insights.

-### Veracity
Veracity refers to the quality and accuracy of the data.At every stage of the Big Data collection and balances are required to ensure data authenticity.

-### Variability
Variability refers to gaps in data that make processing and organizing it difficult.

# Phases of Big Data Analysis

-### Phase-1 Data Extraction
Data is extracted from a variety of structured and unstructured data.We have to sort information inorder to retain the useful data which is helpful.

-### Phase-2 Data Transformation
After the data is sorted,we need to reshape or convert data into required formats, allowing for insights and visualization.

-### Phase-3 Data Loading
Data is transported to the centralized database system.

-### Phase-4 Data Visualization
It enables organizations to visualize large datasets and build dashboards to get a comprehensive view of their entire business operations.

-### Phase-5 Interpretation
We then interpret and validate the results.

# Challenges in Big Data Analysis
-## Storage
Larger amounts of data is being generated daily, the storing of data is challenging when there is unstructured data.

-## Processing
Transforming, interpreting,extraction,and modifying the input and output of the information is difficult to handle.

-## Security
Information is at risk of theft or misuse of information by cyber-criminals.

-## Scaling
Growth of exponential data.It becomes challenging because only new technologies must be used.

-## Timeliness
Certain scenarios require immediate action, but due to the large size of the data, analysis and interpretation may take some time.

(https://www.simplilearn.com/challenges-of-big-data-article#challenges_of_big_data)






